Chapter 0
Who wrote “software is hard?” Who is that guy?
-Donald Knuth, he was an author of the most popular and respected programming textbooks
Programmers start counting at what number?
-0
What was the original sense of a “hacker?”
-obsessive programming tinkerer
According to a 2002 NIST study what % of software came in significantly late, over budget, or was canceled?
-2 out of 3
Who wrote the 1987 essay entitled “No Silver Bullet?”
-Fredrick P. Brooks, Jr.

Chapter 1
What roles in the Chandler project did Michael Toy, John Anderson, Ted Burgess, Mitchell Kapor, and Lou Montulli hold.
What is “Bugzilla?”
What is OSAF?
What is the projects name?
What will the software do?
What is Toy’s keyword for “black hole” bugs?
What scared Toy so much about Bug 44?
What did Toy refer to as a “snake?”
In the software world, what does “slippage” mean?
Fredrick Brooks was a programming manager for what software project?
What is Brooks's Law?
Brooks found what % of project time was spent writing code?
Brooks found what % of project time was for testing and fixing bugs?
Brooks observed that the unit of effort named “man-month” only applied under what conditions?
What is the difference between source code and the program you install (.exe) on your computer?
What is the one “article of faith” that all “open source” or “free” software advocates share?
What is the difference between a “good” programmer and a “great” programmer?
Eric Raymond’s book “The Cathedral and the Bazaar” made a distinction between two important project development ideas, briefly contrast them.
Has “open source” software project development refuted Brooks’s “mythical man-month” concerns?
What was Andy Hertzfeld’s input when the Chandler project appeared to have stalled?
   
Chapter 2
What was the lifetime as a supported product, of Lotus 123? When did Kapor walk away from it? Why did he walk away from it?
What does it mean for a program to “fork?”
Linus Torvalds used a “science” and “witchcraft” analogy referring to software, explain.
Who, where, when demonstrated one of the first PIM software programs?
People often refer to starting their computer as “booting” their computer. What was the origin of this term?
Where was the graphical user interface (GUI) developed?
List three software project “train wrecks.”
What software crisis? Scan this article, what does it suggest? 
http://www.drdobbs.com/architecture-and-design/the-non-existent-software-crisis-debunki/240165910
Scan down this article to the two conclusions (about eight paragraphs down). With two sentences, what is your take away from this?
http://scribblethink.org/Work/Softestim/softestim.html

Chapter 3
Keep track of team members: 2001 --> Mitch Kapor, Morgen Sagen, Al Cho, Andy Hertzfeld
When introducing a new technology or design, why did Frederick Brooks advise “plan to throw one away?”
2002, Katie Parlante joined Chandler. When she first joined what did she do?
John Anderson joined Chandler as “systems architect.” Briefly, what did that mean?
What is a “core” dump? Why the use of the word core?
How did Erik Sink, speaking of abstractions, describe what programmers do?
Rather than writing program statements in binary code, 110101110  1001101111, programmers developed a shorthand language called what?
Adding layers of abstraction, new programming languages were created: Lisp, Cobol, Algol, Basic. Fortran was the first widely used. What kind of program converted Fortran to binary?
What are the implications behind: “...there is no Moore’s Law for software. Chips may double in capacity every year or two; our brains don’t.”?
The language selected for Chandler was Python. What does it mean that Python was an interpreted language?
The announcement of Chandler occurred when? (Interesting Paper) Slashdot page from 2002.

Chapter 4
More programmers join the Chandler team...
Lou Montulli, Aleks Totic (volunteers): experience with internet protocols (Netscape)
Chi-Chao Lam: Product Manager
Pieter Hartsook: OSAF’s marketing and PR
Jed Burgess: GUI, David McCusker: data storage
Michael Toy: Programming team manager
Andi Vajda: OSAF’s repository developer
Brian Skinner (volunteer)
What do “front ends” and “back ends” mean to software developers?
The terms RAP, SQL, object persistence, all relate to a problem Chandler’s developers needed to solve at the earliest stage. What was the problem?
What did the Lego Hypothesis refer to?
Give one reason why the Lego Hypothesis seems to not work so well.
How many “modules” does CPAN currently host?
After Chandler was announced in Oct. 2002, when was the first public release?

Chapter 5
What is the three-way trade-off that many software projects struggle to overcome.
Michael Toy: Software development manager, does what?
What is the more recent definition of “geek?”
Kaitlin “Ducky” Sherwood: Help with Chandler’s approach to email, organize project documentation. Important?
What does “refactoring” mean to programmers?
“In software management, coordination is not an afterthought or an ancillary matter; is the....” Finish the sentence.
What is “yak-shaving?”

Chapter 6
What is term “edge cases” referring to in software development?
What did M. Kapor argue that software design was? (One sentence.)
Montulli and Totic leave the project
Heikki Toivonen, Stuart Parmenter, and Mimi Yin are hired to do what?
Andy Hertzfeld leaves
Michael Toy leaves
Mitch Kapor takes over overall management of development
Summarize briefly Linus Torvalds advice about “large projects” give in 2004

Chapter 7
Ted Leung hired to do what?
Donn Denman hired (2004) to do what?
Briefly describe Hungarian notation
What does the author state is the “...single most challenging demand of software development.”
Brian Kirsch, David Surovell, and Lisa Dusseault joined the effort in what roles?
Katie Parlante assumes mantle as “architecture coordinator”, what is this?
Lisa Dusseault takes on “detailed planning and scheduling of the development work.” Any idea what this is?

Chapter 8
What does “eat your own dogfood” mean?
What happened to the “peer-to-peer” sharing ideal in Chandler? (This is related to the WebDAV discussion.) 
Quote: “When people ask for numbers that far out, the traditional thing that engineers do ....” When discussing the timeline for Chandler, how was the quote above completed?
Aparna Kadakia became quality assurance (QA) manager. Sheila Mooney joins Chao Lam on product management writing more formal and detailed specifications.
As “reality” set in, what happened to Chandlers goals?
Brian Skinner leaves, Stuart Parmenter leaves, Chao Lam leaves, and Ducky Sherwood leaves.

Chapter 9
After about two years with little to show for it, the author suggests the project had something else important. What?
Structured programming evolved to address what programming practice?
Was structured programming a solution to the problem of software development?
Have any techniques shown to improve the software development process?
Give a few software failures the author lists. Did anyone die due to the errors?
The “waterfall model” of programming was/is popular. What were some problems with this model?
What are the four tenets of Agile Software Development?
What did a 2004 study find about the development practices of some two hundred software team leaders?
What is the “Joel Test” and what did he say about Microsoft and the Joel Test.
What is Rosenberg’s Law?

Chapter 10
Chapter 10 is about the notion of “Software Engineering” and the difficulty of applying this label to the development of software. The author suggests that Yertle the Turtle provides an important lesson for programmers. Describe it.
